Refactor TCP Metrics task for telemetry v2 (#6540)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/tcp-metrics/index.md

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all.yaml@
        {{< /text >}}

        If you enabled mutual TLS, run the following command instead:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/destination-rule-all-mtls.yaml@
        {{< /text >}}

        To display the destination rules, run the following command:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl get destinationrules -o yaml
        {{< /text >}}

        Wait a few seconds for destination rules to propagate before adding virtual services that refer to these subsets, because the subset references in virtual services rely on the destination rules.

    1.  Create `ratings` and `reviews` virtual services:

        {{< text bash >}}
        $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-ratings-db.yaml@
        Created config virtual-service/default/reviews at revision 3003
        Created config virtual-service/default/ratings at revision 3004
        {{< /text >}}

1.  Send traffic to the sample application.

    For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web

>     browser or use the following command:

Reviewer: I'm not sure how far down the `Deploy Bookinfo` the user would have gotten in the prior step. GATEWAY_URL isn't set until the `Confirm the app is accessible from outside the cluster` step. The step after that is applying the `destination-rule-all` yaml which you do call out here. Maybe @adammil2000 or @frankbu have more experience on what it means to say `Deploy Bookinfo` and how far the user may have gone.

Author: We did similar thing for previous tcp metrics task too and don't think there was a problem... https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/tasks/observability/mixer/metrics/tcp-metrics/

Reviewer 2: Eric is correct, you're missing the steps where a value actually gets assigned to GATEWAY_URL to use it here. Check out the steps we used here to make that happen correctly: https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/setup/getting-started/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports

Author: Thanks.. Fixed

---
title: Collecting Metrics for TCP services
description: This task shows you how to configure Istio to collect metrics for TCP services.
weight: 20
keywords: [telemetry,metrics,tcp]
aliases:

>     - /docs/tasks/telemetry/tcp-metrics

Reviewer: If this is a totally new file and there aren't any files being deleted (just looking at this PR), is there a need for the aliases?

Author: This is a new file for old tcp-metrics page. So, keep the aliases?

Reviewer: Yes. That way old URL still comes here.

    {{< /text >}}

    View values for the TCP metrics in the Prometheus browser window.  Select **Graph**.
    Enter the `istio_tcp_connections_opened_total` metric or `istio_tcp_connections_closed_total` and select **Execute**.
    The table displayed in the
    **Console** tab includes entries similar to:

    {{< text plain >}}
    istio_tcp_connections_opened_total{destination_version="v1",instance="172.17.0.18:42422",job="istio-mesh",source_service="ratings-v2",source_version="v2"}
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text plain >}}
    istio_tcp_connections_closed_total{destination_version="v1",instance="172.17.0.18:42422",job="istio-mesh",source_service="ratings-v2",source_version="v2"}
    {{< /text >}}

## Understanding TCP telemetry collection

In this task, you used Istio configuration to
automatically generate and report metrics for all traffic to a TCP service
within the mesh.

### TCP attributes

Several TCP-specific attributes enable TCP policy and control within Istio.
These attributes are generated by Envoy Proxies and obtained from Istio using Envoy's Node Metadata.

> Peer Envoys are forwarded Node Metadata based on ALPN based tunneling with a prefixed based protocol.

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to rewrite this sentence to be more clear? It's hard to parse. Something more like "X forwards Node Metadata to Peer Envoys using ALPN based tunneling and a prefixed protocol" or similar?

Author: How about?
Envoy forwards Node Metadata to Peer Envoys using ALPN based tunneling and a prefixed protocol

Reviewer: Agree the original sentence is confusion. This sentence is better. Should it be `prefix based` or `prefixed based` protocol (no _based_ in the later sentence)?

Author: Thanks, corrected and yes it should be prefix based

We define a new protocol `istio-peer-exchange`, that is advertised and prioritized by the client and the server sidecars

> in the mesh. ALPN negotiation would resolve the protocol to `istio-peer-exchange` for connections between Istio enabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the mesh. ALPN negotiation resolves the protocol to `istio-peer-exchange` for connections between Istio enabled
```

proxies, but not between an Istio enabled proxy and any other proxy.
This protocol extends TCP as follows:

1.  TCP client, as a first sequence of bytes, sends a magic byte string and a length prefixed payload.
1.  TCP server, as a first sequence of bytes, sends a magic byte sequence and a length prefix payload. These payloads

>  are protobuf encoded serialized metadata.

Reviewer 2: Is the word magic used here the real technical term?

Author: yeah :)

Reviewer: Should this sentence have `length prefixed` like the others?

Author: changed to `prefix` everywhere

Author: Changed to `prefix based protocol` and `length prefixed payload`.. please review

> 1.  Client and server can write simultaneously and out of order. The extension filter in Envoy should hold the further

Reviewer 2: "Envoy should hold", do you mean "Envoy holds"? The word "should" in this location confuses the meaning.

Author: "The extension filter in Envoy then does the further" -> how about this?

        Created config virtual-service/default/ratings at revision 3004
        {{< /text >}}

>     1.  Cleanup mongo proxy as the terminal filter:

Reviewer 3: Please add a comment at the top about this being temporary. It is embedded in the config, but should be at the top as well.

Reviewer 4: I don't think this should surface in operator-visible docs. This is fine for the developer docs, but it is extremely ugly.

Author: Removed this config..

    $ kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=prometheus -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 9090:9090 &
    {{< /text >}}

    View values for the TCP metrics in the Prometheus browser window.  Select **Graph**.
    Enter the `istio_tcp_connections_opened_total` metric and select **Execute**.
    The table displayed in the
    **Console** tab includes entries similar to:

    {{< text plain >}}

>     istio_tcp_connections_opened_total{destination_version="v1",instance="172.17.0.18:42422",job="istio-mesh",source_service="ratings-v2",source_version="v2"}

Reviewer 3: We should have both opened_total and received_bytes as example.
